so behind me you can see my observatory
that I've built here my garden in
Wiltshire but typically most people if
they're doing solar observing will just
use a standard mount setup and bring it
out into the sunshine setting up the
mountain for daytime solar observing is
exactly the same as you would for
nighttime observing you do have two
polar align the Mount and obviously
that's a bit more tricky in the daytime
you don't have Polaris as a reference
point typically what most people will do
is maybe place marking points on the
ground where the Mount is allowing to
north or you could use a compass just to
set a rough North I'm close to north is
okay for most Sun we're observing the
mount pointing up towards the north and
then obviously that you've got the Sun
going over tracking over the southern
part of the sky depending on the time of
year obviously higher up in the summer
can make it easy to observe the Sun but
also you have to take into account
thermal considerations especially if
you're in a more urban environment where
you've got a lot of concrete around we
can get a lot of heat coming off the
ground this can as it does with their
evening observing affect the image and
seeing is a factor with both daytime and
at night time reserving scene can be
more critical observing the Sun
obviously because you've got a lot of
heat being created during the day so
most solar observers tend to observe
either early in the morning or the
imaging teams I've worked with in
particular tend to observe an image
early in the morning or late in the
afternoon ideally over water if you've
near to river or a lake or the seaside
all over grass or hills if you have to
be lucky enough to be in the countryside
but anywhere is okay in reality so we've
got the telescope mount here this is a
Sky Watcher any key free mount aligned
to north we've also got it at the
correct angle latitude angle obviously
at 51 degrees here it's also very
important to correctly balance your
telescopes as you do in the evening
because you obviously don't want to do
any damage through the gearing system of
the mountain itself especially if it's a
tracking map tracking mounts are ideal
for long-term observe observe a Shanor
imaging where you're not having to
reposition but if you just have a
standard tripod and something like echo
Nardo PST which does have a tripod
thread built into the base of it as
there's a solar scope here you can use
that for casual observing with the Sun
and
taking notes and sketches if you're
happy just to reposition at any point
the amount we're using here as I said is
in any q3 it's slight overkill for this
purpose because it has full go-to
capability and the ability to point to
millions of different objects hundreds
of thousands of stars galaxies and such
on the sky from its own catalog and
database but any tracking that will be
fine just needs to track basically in
right ascension to follow in some
throughout the day so finding the Sun
you may think is quite easy it's a large
object in the sky but in reality it
isn't and you do have to use specialist
solar finders really to assist you with
finding the Sun that we have on the
solar scope here the Sun of you 50 is a
teleview soul searcher this is a small
add-on which comes included with the
telescope this we purchased either
separately if you don't have one already
and there's various other companies like
Astro engineering who also makes solar
finders what we have is effectively a
pinhole at the front and a small white
disk at the back now the pinhole acts as
a pinhole type camera effectively when
you move the telescope about you'll
gradually begin to see more and more of
a shadow where the shadow is being cast
here and you can see just in here a
whiter image which is the Sun what we're
trying to do is maneuver the telescope
until that white image of the Sun it's
exactly over the white disk as you can
see here now we can be reasonably happy
and confident that we have the Sun in
the field of view through the camera or
your rv's